Method 1: Pixel replication:
INTRODUCTION:
It is also known as Nearest neighbor interpolation. As its name suggest , in this method , we just replicate the neighboring pixels. As we have already discussed in the tutorial of Sampling , that zooming is nothing but increase amount of sample or pixels. This algorithm works on the same principle.


WORKING:
In this method we create new pixels form the already given pixels. Each pixel is replicated in this method n times row wise and column wise and you got a zoomed image. Its as simple as that.


FOR EXAMPLE:
if you have an image of 2 rows and 2 columns and you want to zoom it twice or 2 times using pixel replication, here how it can be done.

For a better understanding , the image has been taken in the form of matrix with the pixel values of the image.


1	2
3	4

The above image has two rows and two columns, we will first zoom it row wise.


ROW WISE ZOOMING:
When we zoom it row wise , we will just simple copy the rows pixels to its adjacent new cell.

Here how it would be done.

1	1	2	2
3	3	4	4

As you can that in the above matrix , each pixel is replicated twice in the rows.

COLUMN SIZE ZOOMING:
The next step is to replicate each of the pixel column wise, that we will simply copy the column pixel to its adjacent new column or simply below it.

Here how it would be done.

1	1	2	2
1	1	2	2
3	3	4	4
3	3	4	4
NEW IMAGE SIZE:
As it can be seen from the above example , that an original image of 2 rows and 2 columns has been converted into 4 rows and 4 columns after zooming. That means the new image has a dimensions of

(Original image rows * zooming factor, Original Image cols * zooming factor)

ADVANTAGE AND DISADVANTAGE:
One of the advantage of this zooming technique is , it is very simple. You just have to copy the pixels and nothing else.

The disadvantage of this technique is that image got zoomed but the output is very blurry. And as the zooming factor increased , the image got more and more blurred. That would eventually result in fully blurred image.

Source: http://www.tutorialspoint.com/dip/Zooming_Methods.htm
